[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
everybody ready?
Okay, here's the next one.
Write a function that takes a function and
an argument, and
returns a function that can
supply a second argument.
So this is sometimes
called the curry function.
So curry(add,
3) produces an add3 function, and
we can call that with 4 and it returns 7.
>> Douglas Crockford: Does
anyone need more time?
>> Douglas Crockford: All right,
so here it is.
Function curry takes a function and
a first parameter and
returns a function that takes
a second parameter, and
returns a result of calling
the function with both parameters.
Who got this one?
Outstanding, who's still
struggling with this,
and,
>> Douglas Crockford: Where
are you getting hung up?
>> Speaker 2: I think a key point I was
missing on the first example was that
the function that's being provided
is expected to take two parameters.
I was trying to play in my head with the
function that could take more than two,
and that was really
tripping me up to try and
figure out when I should actually be
invoking the function in question.
>> Douglas Crockford: That's interesting,
we'll talk about that in a minute.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Douglas Crockford: Anybody else?
>> Speaker 3: Same as him.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah, okay,
so this is called currying.
It's also called schonfinkelisation.
It's called currying after Haskell Curry,
a mathematician who did work on
lambdas and functional forms.
The idea of being able to take
a function of many arguments and
turn it into something where you express
functions having only single arguments,
make certain kinds of transformations
easier to reason about.
And there's some consensus that
Schonfinkel came up with this stuff before
Haskell did.
So they think it should be
called schonfinkelisation, but
that's not really catching on,
so it's called currying.
Now another way you could have written
this, this is for extra credit,
you could've used the applyf
function that you already wrote and
done it in terms of that.
So I don't suppose anybody did that one,
but you would get an extra credit.
>> Douglas Crockford: Then some people
like to write this for any number of
arguments, not just one, but have many
arguments going into the currying.
And unfortunately, that is horrible
to do in the current language,
because the arguments array
is not really an array.
And so you have to do all of this horrible
stuff to get around the fact that it
is not an array.
Calling things off of Array.prototype, and
slicing in order to convert it from
one form to another, terrible.
In the next edition of ECMAScript, we'll
probably have a dot dot dot operator,
which looks exactly like the other
solution, except you have dot dot dot for
everything which could represent
multiple arguments, which is brilliant.
This is gonna be my second favorite
feature in the next edition of
the language if it ever comes out.
>> Douglas Crockford: So
any questions about curry before we go
on to the next one?
>> Douglas Crockford: So
if you've had dot dot-
>> Speaker 2: Looks like that.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
you're struggling with that, right?
>> Speaker 2: Right.
>> Douglas Crockford: I feel your pain.
That is really awful,
awful code, whereas this would have
been just dot dot dot, give me more.
Okay, so now the next one.
Without writing any new functions, show
three ways to create the inc function,
where the inc adds one to a number.
>> Speaker 2: We can't write
the inc function ahead.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: No,
you're writing no new functions,
only calling functions that
you've already written.
>> Douglas Crockford: Show three
ways to create an inc function.
>> Douglas Crockford: This is
where it starts to become useful,
where we can use functions as factories
for making sets of related things.
>> Douglas Crockford: In this case,
you've already written three
functions that know how to do this.
>> Douglas Crockford: All right,
so here we go.
Number 1, addf(1).
Number 2, applyf(add)(1).
And curry(add, 1).
So who got all three?
You think you did?
Who got two?
>> Speaker 2: I forgot
that we had written addf.
I didn't realize you wanted
three different inc quotations.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
and who got one?
Okay, and who struggled with this one?
>> Douglas Crockford: So the point of this
one was part of the value of thinking in
functions is looking for work that you
have already done and factoring that in.
The whole point of this is,
surprising as it may seem right now,
is avoidance of work.
>> Douglas Crockford: Okay,
write methodize,
a function that converts
a binary function to a method.
So here, we're gonna create
Number.prototype.add and
pass in the methodization of add.
>> Douglas Crockford: So methodize has to
create a function that will use this as
one of the parameters to the addition.
>> Douglas Crockford: Any
questions about this?
>> Speaker 2: I can't really
wrap my head on the problem.
>> Douglas Crockford: Okay, so
one of the interesting things, okay, so
numbers are objects in JavaScript,
which means they can have methods.
So when you call a number method,
this gets bound to the number.
>> Speaker 2: Right.
>> Douglas Crockford: So
the add method takes only one parameter
because the other
parameter comes with this.
>> Douglas Crockford: But we're trying to
transform the original add function which
took two parameters.
So we want to return a function which
takes the add that we pass in and
returns a function that
knows how to use this.
>> Douglas Crockford: So the point of this
is if you have an existing function and
you need a function which is exactly the
same, except slightly different in form,
you don't have to rewrite the function.
>> Douglas Crockford: Okay, so here it is.
Methodize returns a function
that takes a y that
returns the calling of func with this and
y.
>> Douglas Crockford: So who got this one?
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: [LAUGH] And
then this shows in ES6, it will be easy
to have functions that aren't just
binary functions, but functions of
any arity with the dot dot thing,
which will be nice, but
that's the one I was looking for.
So was this one harder
maybe than the other ones?
And why was that?
>> Douglas Crockford: Anybody?
>> Speaker 2: I originally thought I
could get away with using curry this,
but that did not work out.
Cuz my list was not properly scoped.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah, this is
problematic within functions that you only
get to use it at one level.
>> Speaker 2: Can we go back
one screen just for a second?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
let's see with the other one.
>> Douglas Crockford: Okay,
ready for the next one?
Okay, write demethodize.
Demethodize is a function that converts
a method to a binary function.
So we're gonna reverse what we
did to Number.prototope.add so
that after we demothodize it,
we can now again pass it two parameters.
>> Douglas Crockford: So we'll take a
function that takes this kind of parameter
and turn it into a function
that takes two parameters.
>> Douglas Crockford: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: So I'm curious,
who's thinking this is fun?
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: [LAUGH] And
who's thinking this is work?
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: [LAUGH] And
who's thinking it's torture?
Not a-
>> Speaker 2: This feels like the kind of
code you write to exercise
a compiler [INAUDIBLE] business.
It feels like a job [INAUDIBLE].
>> Douglas Crockford: [LAUGH] Well,
I'm happy to tell you,
there's no job at the end of it.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: This is great material for
interviews.
[LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
I'll tell you my opinion on that.
I don't believe in stunts as
part of the interview process.
The thing I like to do is invite
people to bring in some code that they
wrote that they're proud of and
review it and have an independent.
Cuz I wanna see what
they think is good code.
I want to see how it's constructed.
I wanna see how it's commented,
all that stuff.
I don't get any of that from trivia
questions or stunts or anything like that.
>> Douglas Crockford: Also,
I would get a lot of that stuff wrong.
If someone starts asking me about
corner cases of the language,
what would you do if you saw
some code that look like that,
I would say I would find that guy and
I'd fire him.
[LAUGH] And I can't tell you
what that code actually does.
I don't care.
>> Speaker 2: Probably talking
>> Douglas Crockford: All right,
so here it is.
Demethodize takes a function and
returns a function and that and y and
uses the call method on the function
in order to set this with that.
>> Douglas Crockford: So we talked
about call earlier, but I apologize.
I might not have given you
enough detail to have done this.
>> Douglas Crockford: So who got this one?
Okay, a few of you did, really good.
>> Speaker 2: I have question.
Since we're passing in a function,
why can't we just return the function and
send it to another variable?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: What I had is basically
demethodize equals function method,
like you have done with the signature, and
I'm just returning function, basically.
So where you have the closure returning
a function, I'm just returning func.
>> Speaker 2: Because presumably,
the function already is the two parameter.
>> Douglas Crockford: Well, we start with
a function which is a one parameter and
this function.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, but
I just don't know if it's right.
If it is return,
took a function taking func,
then it just returned another
function that took two parameters.
And then it did the param p1,
returns p1 that then func param p2.
>> Douglas Crockford: We need to
get that assigned to this somehow.
>> Speaker 2: Why wouldn't
this [INAUDIBLE] here?
>> Douglas Crockford: Well,
yeah, let's talk about it later.